---
layout: post
author: Camille Xue
title: Dear Data Critique
---

SEPT. 17 2018

Dear Data was my personal favorite piece out of the fifteen that we examined in class on Friday, but even without my own personal preferences, it was a strong, effective piece of art. Dear Data served two purposes: to build a friendship between Giorgia Lupi and Stefanie Posavec and to inspire students and non-data experts to become more interested in working with data. Lupi and Posavec were able to achieve these goals because they committed to a long-term project, creative tangible, aesthetically pleasing artifacts, and used a medium that was easily accessible. 

Dear Data enabled Lupi and Posavec to effectively build their friendship through postcards because it was a long term year long project that involved sharing pieces of their personal lives with each other. Relationships take time to build, so the duration and scale of the project was important in ensuring that Lupi and Posavec were able to develop their friendship over time, learning more and more about each other each week.

As an art piece intended for a larger audience, Lupi and Posavec wanted to use Dear Data to inspire others, specifically people who don’t usually work with data, to become inspired to collect data on their own and try this project for themselves. They were able to achieve this because the postcards themselves are fun, colorful, hand drawn, and just impressive to look at. The type of data they were collecting was so simple, almost mundane, but they were able to turn this information into beautiful, personal pieces of art. The aesthetic appeal of the project is what initially draws a person in, and the complexity of each piece almost demands an explanation. By the time someone starts reading the detailed keys on the backs of the postcards, they’ve become more invested in the art and become more curious about how the types of data Lupi and Posavec collected relates to them.

It’s not enough for people to appreciate their art though, because they want other people to go out and do it themselves. That’s where the easily accessible medium comes into play. Postcards are easily attainable for most people, especially when thinking about using it as a sort of art canvas. The small size of each post card makes each piece of week’s visualization seem more doable and less intimidating. The postcards, coupled with their use of nothing but colored pens and markers, basically tells the viewer “Anyone can do this. It’s easy. You could do this.” And that makes Dear Data effective in inspiring other people to try working with data and try doing this project themselves. 

[Dear Data, the project](http://www.dear-data.com/theproject/)
